Hello with our.
Welcome to another exciting instalment of unreel multiplayer.
Now in this lecture we are going to be having a look at a concept called replication and authority.
Now sounds like a dull concept but the idea is quite an interesting one.
It tells us all about how when we move an object in a server that object moves in a client and what
happens in the opposite direction and how we can extend that from just movement to other properties
as well maybe like colour for example.
So going to understand how all that fits together and how that allows us to play games together which
is the hope with this course.
So let's dive in.
So as we saw in the last lecture there were some pretty weird behaviour going on with this cube if we
were the client.
So here I'm not the client and the server.
I can see it moving.
So let's go to the client and I go over to the same queue.
In fact let me bring that window in a little bit because it's hard to see.
See there again.
I come over to this queue.
Then you'll notice that I can run straight through it which is a super weird thing to be able to do
why am I able to run through this cue albeit with a little bit of a delay.
And what happens if I try and stand on it.
For example if I try and jump on my cube I'm going to fall right through it every time.
Let's do that again just to show you it's not a fluke.
Well it hard to land on maybe we're going to adjust the controls of this third person so that he can
land easily on top of cubes maybe from here.
But basically I can fall right through in fact look at this.
I'm standing right inside the cube How weird is that.
So that's clearly something odd that we don't quite understand.
And I teased you enough with this.
We're going to try and understand what it is.
Unreal means by actor authority is quite a key concept to unrealized multi player replication.
So let's tackle that.
Now the idea is that actors are the key bit of replication.
They are the key component which unreal chooses to move between client and server.
It tries to keep up to date between client and server.
You start off with certain amount of actors in the world in a map and both players load them.
So we'll start off with a server who starts off loading in these two cubes one being green and one being
red and then we have the client who also has the same map.
So he gets the same cubes set up in his world.
Now what happens next.
Well the server decides that he wants to replicate only one of these cubes.
He wants to replicate the green cube.
And furthermore he wants to replicate the position property of that green.
Q But he decides that he doesn't want to replicate that red.
Q Okay so now what happens next.
Say that these server updates its position of the green cube to 20 from 10.
Now what happens is unreal will noticed that because it was a replicated object and a replicated property.
It's going to have to send that change to all the clients connected and then in turn these clients will
update their position.
Now notice that this happened because it was both a replicated actor and a replicated property on that
actor.
So if the server had changed the green property to red then that would not have been sent to this to
the client and the client would have stayed green.
Similarly if we'd updated the position of the red cube on the server that wouldn't have got to the client
and the client would have stayed in position 10.
So that explains to some extent why we're seeing this behaviour with the queue.
We've got a non replicated cube which means that if it is moved on the server it does not get moved
on the client and furthermore that means that if they disagree client and server then the servers going
to set the client back.
So when we went and tried to run through that cube we noticed that because on the server He didn't mind
that we weren't.
There was no cube there.
In fact let's let's have a look at that again because this is a little bit subtle so you might be forgiven
for not quite getting this on the first pass.
So here we have the servers.
I'm going to go over to my client.
Here's the client.
But watch what's happening on the server from the servers point of view.
You notice that from the server.
He is just moving smoothly back and forth through a point in space which has got no obstacles.
So that's because my input is being sent up to the server.
And then it is updating the character on the server and then coming back down to me.
So because it's coming back down to me I'm able to go through that cube.
But because I can see it here locally it hasn't been updated.
Basically what's happening is is that client replication that is happening and the inputs going onto
the server and the position of my character is coming back down to me.
And that's why I can run through a cube that seemingly to me is blocking my way.
But it isn't.
That's the problem that's the main takeaway.
So we want to make it so that cube can be updated on the server only and then have that change of movement
replicated down to all the clients.
So let's hop over to visual studio where we can get this ball rolling.
It's a property that we typically will set in begin play not in the constructer because that's too early.
We want to do it only on the server that replication is enabled as we saw on the slide.
We only put those green ticks there on the server.
That's what we want to do here as well now.
So let's go ahead and create a begin play go over to the head of file and just do it above tick to show
the time in which it's happening and create a new begin place so that begin play as a void return type
again as virtual void begin play with correct capitalization and no arguments to begin play and make
sure that it is indeed an override.
And just as we did with TIC I'm going to copy that in to the C++ file not trusting myself to type correctly
as you've already seen.
I'm prone to making many many typos.
And then we will execute the body of that begin play and I am going to call sooper begin play here just
as we did for take.
Do remember to do this one.
It actually matters even more than the tic because otherwise blueprint things will not be called.
And then in there begin playing.
We are going to do a set replicates.
Just follow along with me here.
If you can set replicates and set it to true.
That's equivalent to.
On my diagram.
Putting that tick next to the green cube.
So set replicates with an s.
That's why it's giving me the Greens quigley's the Reds quigley's Rather.
And furthermore we need to check that box next to the position to say that we want position to replicate
and that is set replicates.
Movement.
Because by default it won't just replicate your movement for you won't give you that for free.
So set replicate this time set.
Replicate movement to true.
These two functions are vital for getting your active replication in place now.
Note that if we ran this right now we would get an error from set replicates.
True because we're calling it both on the client and the server because there's no has authority wrapper
as we have in tick.
This gets called on both and it is actually not valid to call set replicates on a client.
Kind of makes sense you can't replicate from a client because the client doesn't have the authority.
It can't go the other way.
Well that's one thing that I didn't quite say on the diagram but here if our client for example updated
the position of the green cube then the position on the server would not change the synchronization
doesn't go two ways.
The server is always authority of the certs who server is always right.
So like a customer's always right but this time it's the server so you can give that a shot pause V
and have a go.
Compiling and seeing what the error looks like just for your information.
If you've done that then we can go ahead and do an IF has authority.
So.
Then we can do these two was a nest that they set replicate and set that replicates and set replicate
movement in that to the has authority.
Go ahead and build that and we'll hopefully be able to see a cube that moves both on the client and
the server from a piece of code that's just updating it on the server as we've already seen.
We know that it doesn't update on the client so we should now be able to see that the replication of
movement comes back down to said client with the compellation comp. Let's hop on over into one real
and give it a shot.
I'm going to switch back to playing in the selected viewport And here's the server the server says yes
that is working.
How about the client.
The client we go over to look at the cube.
Yes.
It's also moving on the client so our replication is now working that server is sending updates down
to the client saying hey I've moved this cube I move this cube up move this cube and the client is updating
the actor to the new position.
Fantastic time for an exercise in what if you are going to be doing this for your challenge to update
the cube on the client only should know how to do this.
Do you know how to find out whether it's a server.
It's not a server then it's a client.
Then figure out what happens.
What is the behaviour that's happening between the client and the server and see if you can explain
the phenomenon.
And I don't want you to just explain it in your head.
I want you to go to the community and explain it in a post there explain it to some other students and
then go and read some other students explanations and see whether there's make sense and see whether
you can help them out if it doesn't quite make sense.
We'll see if yours makes sense in light of what other people have done.
But first make a guess.
Make a post and say what your understanding of the phenomenon is.
Pause video and have a go at that.
Okay.
Welcome back.
So I'm going to go ahead and give this a shot.
Let's dive in to Visual Studio.
And the thing we want to do is check whether if I move this on the client what's going to happen so
I'm going to do a not has authority because that will tell me that I'm a client and so in fact let's
make a comment to that effect.
Not on server equals client.
Like so.
And then what we're going to do is we are going to head into one real and compile and then we're going
to play it and see what happens whether that cube is moving on both on just the server or maybe just
the client and try and explain why that happen.
So let's do that let's go and play.
So I hit the play button go on the server up to my cube and nothing is moving that cube is completely
static and I can't walk through it because well I'm authoritative which means that the cube is definitely
not moving.
But if I go over to my client and go and have a look at the same said cube then you'll notice that it
is moving.
So what's going on here then.
Well if we go back to our diagram from before you will notice that the server is authoritative that
is the key take away from this diagram which means that if the client has updated the position it doesn't
get advertised back to the server at the service position is always correct and it's only if the server
updates the position that we end up with a difference.
Okay so that means that when the client here in a code go back to visual studio when the client we know
it's the client because we're saying it and not has authority runs the code to update the location said
location does not get sent back to the server and that's the behaviour we're seeing here that the server
is standing there with a queue in the place we would expect.
However our client has now had its cuv move completely out the way but I'd like to show you something
which is that the clients still can't move through this invisible queue because the servers are still
right.
We're still sending out updates up to the server which means that if I go and try and walk through that
cube the server says no that's not right.
There's a cube that you can't walk through a cube.
And let me show you one more thing.
If we go over to our client again while having restarted so the was back in position and I go and try
and sit on that cube.
Go and do that again.
I'm going to struggle to get on the cube it seems.
Let's bring in let's bring it a little bit closer to the wall so I can actually hop on it more easily.
So bring it right up to the wall and down a little bit so that I can just walk right onto it without
actually having to jump.
Hit Play.
And go to my client again.
Go and try and walk on to the platform.
There I am.
And I fall off I fall off because again the service is now airing a platform there mate.
And how about if my server goes to stand on the same platform.
He can obviously because there is a platform there for the server the server what the server says is
truth.
So that's what's going on.
And if I am the client and I go and have a look.
Well hang on that's weird.
I've got my servers standing on a queue over here to the left of the platform.
And I go over to the client and he's like travelling on my travelling cube.
Well here's a little bit of a nuance going on basically because the character that and real builds basically
will move when something is attached to move something when it's standing on top of something then it
moves.
So what's actually gone on here is that because we've got this dude who seems to be standing on our
platform then my local client is moving him with the platform.
But you'll notice now that if I get my character to step off the platform and go back to the cline's
again lots of switching back and forth you'll notice these back in the right place because he's no longer
standing on a platform so he's no longer being updated by the client to the same position as the platform.
Just a little bit of a side there to understand.
What happens when they disagree.
Because the client disagreed with the server's location but the servers location won out.
He ended up being back on top of that platform.
Okay so you've got a much better understanding now of how replication works in the light of actors how
we have to enable replication factors it doesn't happen by default and also seen what actually happens
when they disagree.
So before we head off to the next lecture I just want to set this back so that it's in a working state
before we can commit it.
So I'm going to take away the not in front of has authority so that the movement is only happening on
the server and I'm going to move the comment because it's no longer relevant.
So we're going to hit save there and we've got a comet.
Ready to put in the pipe.
We sit.
Save the map as well.
Congratulations you now have a much better understanding of what replication is in real and what it
actually means for a server to be authoritative.
I will see you in the next lecture.